h1. Application Pages

h2. Main page (landing page)
- main#index

Get a quote     -> Booking page   (booking_path) booking#create, booking#show:id
Start tracking  -> Tracking page  (tracking_path) tracking#show:id
Search courier  -> Searching page (search_couriers_path) search#couriers
Register        -> Registration Index page (registrations_path) registration#index

h2. Registration

Registering a specific type of User account (role) with profile info etc.

h3. Registration Index page

Choose type of role to register

Register as Individual Courier -> Individual Courier Registration page 
Register as Courier Company -> Courier Company Registration page
Register as Private Customer -> Private Customer Registration page
Register as Professional Customer -> Professional Customer Registration page

h3. Individual Courier Registration page

Registration form
- location
- company
- first name
- last name
- mobile nr
- email
- vehicle
- notes

Register -> Registration confirmation page

h3. Registration confirmation page

Thank you msg and telphone call notice.

Home -> Main page

h2. Tracking

Initiated from main page by filling out tracking code form
- tracking code

Start tracking -> Tracking page 

h3. Tracking page
- tracking#show from Main page 

Using tracking code linked to booking

Tracking code form
Start tracking -> Tracking page 

Book new delivery -> Main page

h2. Booking

Initiated from main page by filling out basic address info form:
- pick-up point
- drop-off point
- mode of transportation (vehicle)

Get quote -> Booking page

h3. Booking page
- booking#new from Main page 

Displays a form with adress from main page (split up into its parts) and lets you fill out contact info details for pick-up and drop-off points  

Schedule later & pay -> Schedule page
Book now & pay -> 
  - booking request sent to Couriers
  - Modal window to await courier order confirmation 
  - Cancel -> Booking page

Scenarios:
- Courier accepts
  - Payment -> Payment page
- No courier accepts
  - Try again -> Booking page
  - Schedule later & pay -> Schedule page

h3. Schedule page
- schedule#new from Booking page

h3. Payment page
- payment#new from Booking or Schedule page 

Pay -> 
  - execute payment via provider
  Scenarios:
    - Success
      - create new tracking code on booking
    - Failure
      - Go back to Payment page and display error msg

h2. Searching

Initiated from main page. Searches couriers.
Can be used for rating etc.

h3. Searching page 

profiles#search
